We are well on our way.
We've taken some of our first steps and
we have more steps to take.
So, what we're going to do
now is pause a little bit and
look at some of the things we've
been writing these spells.
I've just been like, say this thing
into your browser console and
magic will happen.
And we've been getting to
know some of the spells.
And how to say them and
what like circles of candles
we need to arrange around ourselves in
order for things to do what we expect.
What we're going to do now
is take a look at some of
the things that we've been working with
that we didn't even really talk about or
think about and drill into what they are.
Namely, I'm talking about chunks
of information that we call data.
And that we can call
values of certain types.
So we've seen things like this so far for
example, in quotes, double quotes
we've seen the word Tic Tac Toe, as like
the title or the header of the page.
We've seen numbers like 9.
Don't have quotes around them.
We've seen other things in quotes,
like the #board, right?
That we said was a CSS selector.
But what are these things
that we've been working with,
that we haven't really named or
talked about?
So, these are values in JavaScript.
These are chunks of information.
We could call them data in terms
of units of information that
have certain characteristics.
So they represent different
types of information.
They represent different
kinds of things in the world.
And they literally are two JavaScript
different kinds of things.
So the information or
the values that we're working with in
JavaScript can be of different types.
And JavaScript has a certain defined
set of different types that it knows
how to work with one example that we've
seen a lot of today is textual data.
So things like Tic Tac Toe or
#board or andina or
any of these things in the quotes
that we've been seeing
a lot today these are pieces of text
data or we could also call them strings.
I like those little friendship
bracelets with the little letter beads,
if you've ever seen these, that's kind of
how I personally remember like strings as
being textual pieces of data.
And this is a general concept in
computer science and programming.
Often different languages will consider
textual data to be of the type string.
So we're gonna talk more in
detail about strings later.
But just for a sort of preview, all of
these are examples of strings in double
quotes, Hello, with an exclamation
point that's a string in single quotes.
I like single-quotes.
That is also a string.
And even without the quotes but
with these little what we call
backticks those little angled marks,
that is also a string.
So in JavaScript we have three different
options for how we can at least three
different options for how we can
represent strings inside double quotes,
inside single quotes,
or inside back ticks.
All of those are valid
strings in JavaScript, and
you'll notice also in our back texturing
we have something else in there.
We have an emoji, right?
So strings don't have to just
include ASCII letters or
kind of the letters that you might see
on your keyboard right in front of you.
They can also include unicode characters
of all different types including emoji and
characters from different writing
sets from different scripts and
things like that.
So we can have all kinds of stuff in
there, we can also have numbers, right?
Like for example, a phone number 867-5309.
If anybody catches the 80 song reference
could be a string if it is in quotes or
just a regular number, like 42.
If it's in quotes, it is a string.
We're gonna talk a little bit
more about that later because, so
what does that mean?
What do I mean when I say
a number can be a string?
So this is a question for y'all.
Do you think that 42 in quotes and
42 without quotes are the same
thing in JavaScript.
I'm seeing some heads shaking.
No, they are not the same thing.
And we can prove it to ourselves
if we use a fun little
JavaScript spell, keyword called typeof.
So typeof is what's actually an operator,
which we'll talk about later.
Typeof is a little spell we can cast
on a value to find out its type.
So let me go back over and we're gonna
go back into our JavaScript console.
And I just wanted to point out that
your JavaScript console earlier,
we were looking at it in the context
of the tic tac toe page.
But we can even open a console
without even having any page loaded,
just in the new tab in the browser.
Usually there is a keyboard shortcut that
I can use, but I can also go into the menu
of my browser and this is going to be
slightly different in different browsers.
But usually there is some kind
I have options for tools or
developer tools or
more tools in this case.
And here I can open web developer tools
and this will give me my inspector my
console a whole bunch of other stuff that
we'll talk about later in the course.
But for now I just need the console and
I can actually just use the console
without having any page really loaded.
I don't really care about the page,
I just want the console.
Cool, and usually there is a shortcut
to open and close this which like
in Firefox on Mac, it's I think
option Cmd + I to open and close.
But this will be slightly different on
every system and in every different
browser, that you can look up what
the shortcuts are if you wanna be speedy.
So, [COUGH] in this case, we said
all right, what about 42 versus 42?
That didn't even sound like it made any
sense because the first one was in quotes
and the second one was not in quotes.
And if I just type them into the console,
it doesn't really like
tell me much information.
But if I use this type of
spell in front of them,
I can find out what type of value is.
So, type of quotes 42 tells me
string is the piece of text data but
type of 42 no quotes tells me number.
So JavaScript sees two totally different
things when it looks at these two
different values.
One is a string value with
the double quotes around it.
One is a number value with no quotes.
So typeof is our friend if we're
not sure what something is.
So we just tried it out and
you can try it out,
you can mess around with other
things that you can try typeof on.
[COUGH] And what we found out is that
we now know of at least two different
types of data.
We know of strings, which we've been
working with already today, and
we know of numbers.
Like Count Von Count always showed
us on Sesame Street, just me?
Okay, so numbers in JavaScript,
these are all examples of numbers.
We can have an integer or a whole number
like 9, or we can have really a larger
still an integers like 525,600 which
may or may not be a unit of minutes.
Anyway, we can also have
decimals points in the numbers so
we can have things like 3.45.
We can have negative signs, and
that still is all still a number, right?
We're just talking about
different in this case,
different sign of whether the number
is positive or negative and a different
precision of how many decimal places
we actually care about in this number.
We can even do big numbers like with
the E, and then a certain number of
a basically decimal places that we want to
multiply whatever's to the left of the.
So just like in math class, you might have
encountered these kind of exponents where
you're saying 1.21 raised to 9 decimal
places out would be like a big number.
I don't know exactly how many.
And JavaScript even has a number
called infinity which is pretty fun,
you can just invoke infinity in your
browser console whenever you want,
if you're feeling lonely, infinity.
So all of these are examples
of numbers in JavaScript.
And what we've seen so far, we've been
talking about strings, and numbers,
those are examples of what in JavaScript
are called primitive data types.
So JavaScript distinguishes two different,
I guess you could say,
meta types, or like types, of types of
data, there are primitive data types,
of which strings and
numbers are two examples.
And then there's objects and so
primitive data types are kind of
special where they work a little
bit differently in JavaScript.
And then pretty much everything else is
an object meaning it follows certain rules
that we're gonna talk about later,
we're gonna talk about how objects work.
And we've already seen
an example of an object,
remember how we called it DOM,
it's the document object model.
Document that word document when I invoke
it in the JavaScript console give me
object that represents the HTML document.
So that's an example of
something that's an object type.
So in JavaScript, we basically only
have two kinds of things in the world.
There's primitive values.
And there's objects.
We're gonna dig into all of that.
In JavaScript, we said we have we already
know a couple of the primitive data types.
There's strings and numbers.
And there are a few other data
types that we're gonna care about.
Namely, we have Boolean
data types undefined,
which we saw earlier and null,
which we also ran into earlier.
And then there are a couple of other
primitive data types we're not going to
talk about, but guess where you can go
if you want to read all about them.
Yes, exactly, so we're not gonna talk
about, there's a couple more, but
these are the ones we're gonna care about.
Strings, numbers, Boolean,
undefined, and null.
Okay, so we talked about strings and
numbers.
What about Boolean?
So Booleans, as you may know if
you've encountered them in some other
programming language
are true/false values, or
in other words,
the dual states of Dwight Trou [LAUGH].
So there are literally only two values
of the Boolean type there's true and
there's false and
we can we can invoke them by just using
the word with no quotes true and
if I type Typeof true.
We'll see it's a Boolean and
similarly it's opposite is false.
Now, keep in mind,
we could also have a string, for example,
of the word true,
which is in quotes that's different.
So Boolean values are only true and false.
There's only two.
There's not a lot to worry about there.
Then we have our friends undefined and
null.
So you could think of both undefined and
null as like a blank void of nothingness.
Undefined and null both mean sort of,
this is a value which represents
the absence of a value.
This is nothingness as a value,
getting very philosophical here already,
and it's only like the middle of the day,
but [LAUGH] but so
there is however a difference
between undefined and null.
And I think that difference can
be best explained by our friends
the Backstreet Boys.
So, [LAUGH] so do you remember the song,
I want it that way by the Backstreet Boys.
There's a line in that song
ain't nothing but a mistake and
really what they were singing about
is not some girl that they may or
may not have wanted it that way with.
But they were talking
about values in JavaScript
namely the undefined value being
often sort of used as a way of saying
there was supposed to be something here.
But accidentally oops, like there's
nothing here and nothing but a mistake.
However, null also means
there's nothing here.
But usually it and this is, there's
an asterisk on this because these are not
always the case but usually null means
I meant for there to be nothing here.
I want it that way.
I want there to be nothing here and
I want to tell you that there is and
should be nothing here.
Undefined often crops up when like,
we thought we were supposed to have
something, but we didn't have anything.
Like we ran into it earlier, right?
When we saw like, we thought that
we were gonna have an element
selected by this, but null, there's not.
And null, for example,
when we ran a query selector, and we said,
give me the element on this page with this
ID, and it comes back and it says, null.
It's saying, yes, there is nothing.
You asked me what is the element at
that idea, and it is nothingness.
Congratulations, you've
received nothingness.
So this is one way we can think
about undefined and null.
They are two different types, though.
They're two different values, but
they crop up in different ways.
So yeah, thanks, Backstreet Boys,
for writing a song about JavaScript.